.\" Copyright (c) 1989 University of Maryland
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\"	@(#)newyacc.1	1.0 (Maryland) 10/04/89
.\"
.TH NEWYACC 1 "October 4, 1989"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
newyacc \- an improved parser generator system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B newyacc
.RB [ " \-f "
.RI "grammarfile"
.RB ]
.RB [ " \-sld " ]
.RB [ " \-Y "
.RI "yaccbinary"
.RB ]
.SH INTRODUCTION
.RI Newyacc
is an improved version of the popular parser generator program
.RI yacc
and is a superset of the latter.  Newyacc provides inherited attributes,
a macro-like syntax for easier use, automatic storage management, and
post-processing of the constructed parse tree.
.PP
Like yacc, the file
.RI y.tab.c
is produced as output and must be compiled by the C compiler to
produce the
.RI yyparse
program.  This program, the associated lexical analysis routine
.RI yylex
, a
.RI main
routine, and the
.RI newyacc
library (\-lny) must be loaded together to
create the parser's executable image. In addition, the file
.RI nytags.h
is produced which contains the display tag definitions created for newyacc
parse tree traversals and should be included in the main program file.
.PP
The
.RB \-f
option precedes the name of the input grammar specification file.  The
.RB \-s
option specifies that the input grammar specification is on the stdin
stream.  These two options toggle from left to right on the command
line.  The
.RB \-l
option instructs the program to leave intermediate files (ny.temp.y
and y.output) around instead of purging them.
.RI Newyacc
makes a subsequent call to the system installed version of the standard
.RI yacc
program, but this can be changed by use of the
.RB \-Y
option and an alternate yacc executable filename. The
.RB \-d
option feeds the "-vd" flags to the subsequent
.RI yacc
call which makes yacc produce the intermediate files y.output and y.tab.h.
.SH FILES
.if n .ta 2.5i
.if t .ta 1.8i
y.output	LR(1) tables for debugging
.br
y.tab.c		LR(1) tables
.br
y.tab.h		yacc header file
.br
ny.temp.y	intermediate yacc specification
.br
nytags.h	display tag definitions
.br
/usr/lib/yaccpar	the parser automaton include file
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR lex(1)
.LP
.IR yacc(1)
.LP
.RI "Parse Tree Annotations"
by J. Purtilo and J. Callahan, Communications of the ACM,
December 1989.
.LP
.RI "LR Parsing"
by A. V. Aho and S. C. Johnson, Computing Surveys, June, 1974
.LP
Yacc (Yet Another Compiler Compiler) in Programming Utilities for the
Sun Workstation. "YACC \- Yet Another Compiler Compiler" by S. C. Johnson.
.SH BUGS
The program is supposed to accept plain yacc specifications without problem
as it is a superset of yacc.  There may be problems, however, as extensive
testing has not been done and there are a wide number of other yacc
variants.
.LP
A good debugging technique for now is to look at the ny.temp.y
intermediate file.
.SH AUTHOR
Jack Callahan
